\# resume v1
.TH RJPC CV
.SH NAME
Ryan J.P. Casalino
.PP
.B E:
ryan@boringtranquility.io
.PP
.B P:
+1917.282.7506
.SH SYNOPSIS
I'm a programmer based in Seattle, WA. I'm largely self-taught with an unorthodox educational background. Coupled with a respect for the humanities I am strong believer in the electron and the switch. I love to learn and I am looking for opportunities that will foster my professional growth. I'm excited to learn new technologies and strive to keep abreast of trends and best practices. I have much experience writing web APIs in 
.B Go,
.B Ruby, 
and
.B Python. 
I've worked with a large number of frameworks including but not limited to
.B Rails,
.B Flask,
and
.B Hapi\[char46] 
I dive into
.B Secure Shells
daily and I host my website on a server in my home using 
.B nginx
and
.B NixOS\[char46]
I've worked with a wide range of individuals from various backgrounds.
.SH TECHNICAL SKILLS
Programming languages I know:
.IP \[bu] 2
.B Go 
- 2 years
.IP \[bu]
.B Python 
- 3 years
.IP \[bu]
.B JavaScript 
- 4 years
.IP \[bu]
.BR Ruby 
- 1.5 year
\# glossary-style list 
.SS Tools Experience:
.PP
.IR MySQL, 
.IR PostgreSQL, 
.IR AWS 
(EC2, S3, SNS, et al),
.IR Heroku,
.IR Bash,
.IR Unix, 
.IR Linux,
.IR Docker,
.IR nginx,
and
\# char46 is a dot
.IR Apache\[char46]
This CV was produced using
.IR groff\[char46]
.PP
My daily editor is
.IR vim,
my go-to OS is
.IR NixOS\[char46]
I self-host my personal websites and build them with a custom written static site generator. 
.SH EDUCATION
School of the Art Institute of Chicago - BFA, 2011
.SH WORK EXPERIENCE 
.TS
tab(:);
c s s
c | c | c
l | l | l.
Employment History
=
Company:Role:Duration 
_
React Mobile:Software Programmer:Jan 2019 - Current
_
GawkBox:Software Programmer:Aug 2017 - Jan 2019
_
Merchant-e Solutions:Software Developer:Nov 2016 - Jul 2017
_
Liaison Technologies:Software Developer:Oct 2015 - Nov 2016
_
Crescent City Schools:Operations and Technology Coordinator:Oct 2013 - Jul 2015
_
Kickboard For Teachers:Customer Success Associate:May 2013 - Oct 2013
_
American Apparel:IT Coordinator:Aug 2011 - May 2013
_
NBC News:Broadcast Intern:Summer 2010
.TE
.SH DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
.SS Liaison Technologies
.PP 
Liaison Technologies provided information technology solutions; offering cloud computing, data management, security, and hybrid integration services to manufacturing, energy and chemicals, insurance, and communication sectors. 
.IP \[bu] 2
Collaborated with various parties on data visualization web applications written using Angular and NoSQL. Engaged in code reviews and deployment processes.
.SS Merchant-E Solutions
.PP 
Merchant e-Solutions helps merchants accept payments anywhere and easily manage all on one platform.
.IP \[bu] 2
Worked with various teammates in an effort to replace an older Java based application with a Node based web application. 
.IP \[bu]
Wrote unit tests and worked with QA team to better manage their resources. 
.SS GawkBox
.PP
GawkBox helped online streamers monetize their channels on a variety of platforms. 
.IP \[bu] 2
Wrote (using Go) and maintained a back end RESTful API. 
.IP \[bu]
Wrote a Single Page Application using Vue.js. Performed critical maintenance on a variety of micro services.
.SS React Mobile
.PP
React Mobile provides panic button solutions for the hospitality industry. 
.IP \[bu] 2
Maintained a legacy Rails application and wrote micro services using Go and a variety of AWS tools. 
.IP \[bu]
Maintained an Electron app written using jQuery.
.SH LINKS
.IP \[bu] 2
sourcehut (https://git.sr.ht/~rjpcasalino/)
.IP \[bu]
GitHub (https://github.com/rjpcasalino) 
.IP \[bu]
Lobsters (https://lobste.rs/u/rjpcasalino)
