---
title: 'Using Pandas or wget and awk to Parse COVID-19 Data or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Virus'
layout: post
---

There are various places one can obtain COVID-19 data. This post uses data taken from The New York Times and John Hopkins University.

New York Times data can be got [here](https://github.com/nytimes/covid-19-data) and Hopkins data [here](https://github.com/CSSEGISandData/COVID-19/tree/master/csse_covid_19_data/csse_covid_19_daily_reports).

Install pandas:

	pip install pandas

	from pandas import read_csv

	df = read_csv("us-states.csv")


play around:

	>>> print(f"{df.describe().__doc__}")

	>>> df[["state", "cases"]]

	>>> number_of_cases_by_state = df[["state", "cases"]]

	>>> number_of_cases_by_state.query("state == 'Washington'").groupby("state").max()

	>>> number_of_cases_by_state.query("state == 'Washington'").groupby("state").max().to_json()

	pip install urllib3

	>>> import urllib3

	>>> http = urllib3.PoolManager()

	>>> r = http.request("GET", "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nytimes/covid-19-data/master/us-states.csv")

	>>> r.status

	200

	>>> df = read_csv(str(r.data))

	>>> df.cases.max()

### as of 4/1 @ 9AM PST

	83889

#### wget, awk, and some sed...

It appears the Times doesn't update the CSV with the current day's stats until the next day. That is somewhat annoying. Anyway, I wrote a small bash script to query the CSV by date (rudimentary):

	#!/usr/bin/env bash
		if [ -z "$1" ]; then
			printf "Please supply a date range!\n (e.g., 2 days ago)";
		exit 1;
	fi;

	frame=`date --date="$1" +%F`

	awk -v time=$frame -F, '$1 == time { deaths[$2] += $5 }
	END      { for (name in deaths) print name, deaths[name] }'

`awk` is quite the powerful little tool. Combine this with `sed` and you can get the results rather painlessly. `-v` allows for environment vars and `-F,` denotes that the separator is a comma. Otherwise `awk` defaults to blank spaces.

#### But I Don't Want to Ride the Elevator!

John Hopkins Whiting School of Engineering actually offers a more "robust" CSV which can be found [here](https://github.com/CSSEGISandData/COVID-19/tree/master/csse_covid_19_data). The great thing about this data is it's updated on a regularly scheduled basis. That means we can run our cron job at an actual time that makes sense rather than every 30 minutes. The data files are updated once a day at 23:59 UTC.

First, make sure your server is set to UTC time.

On Debian this can be accomplished a number of ways. I'll use the `dpkg-reconfigure` command. 

	# make sure it's installed and if not...
	$ apt-get install debconf
	$ dpkg-reconfigure tzdata

Pick "other" and UTC will be listed.

	#!/usr/bin/env bash
	wget -q -O data.csv "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CSSEGISandData/COVID-19/master/csse_covid_19_data/csse_covid_19_daily_reports/$(date --date="yesterday" +%m-%d-%Y).csv"

	sed `wc -l < data.csv`q data.csv | LC_ALL=en_US.UTF-8 awk -v updated='2020-04-07 23:00:00' -F, \
	'$5 > updated { deaths[$3] += $9; confirmed[$3] += $8 } \ 
	END { for (name in deaths) 
	printf("%s\n Cases: %'"'"'d\n Deaths: %'"'"'d\n", name, confirmed[name], deaths[name]) }' > output

The `$(date --date="yesterday")` will become superfluous once we've set up our updated cron job.

	LC_ALL=en_US.UTF-8

allows us to place commas between the digits for better readability on output. 

If you would like to know more:

> [LC_ALL] is typically used in scripts that run particular programs. For example, configure scripts generated by GNU autoconf use LC_ALL to make sure that the configuration tests don’t operate in locale dependent ways. [1]

Ditching `sed` we're getting closer to an actual usable program:
	
	#!/usr/bin/env bash
	wget -q -O data.csv \
	"https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CSSEGISandData/COVID-19/master/csse_covid_19_data/csse_covid_19_daily_reports/$(date --date="yesterday" +%m-%d-%Y).csv"

	LC_ALL=en_US.UTF-8 awk -v updated="$(date --date="yesterday" +%y-%m-%d) 23:00:00" -F, \
	'FNR==NR && $5 > updated { deaths[$3] += $9; confirmed[$3] += $8; next }
	{
        	for (state in deaths)
        	if (state == $5 && deaths[state] > 0)
                	printf("%s\n Population: %'"'"'d\n Deaths: %'"'"'d\n Confirmed: %'"'"'d\n '%' Dead: \n\t%f\n '%' Confirmed: \n\t%f\n", 
                	state, $16, deaths[state], 
                	confirmed[state], 
                	deaths[state] / $16 * 100, 
                	confirmed[state] / $16 * 100)
	}' $1 $2 > /dev/stdout

- - - 

[1]https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/html_node/Locale-Environment-Variables.html
